---
layout: post
title:  "Another Month"
date:   2020-05-31 20:00:00 +1000
categories: 100daystooffload technology personal
---
I really need to start looking at how to automate the creation of these posts to automatically date, title and timestamp them so I don't need to manually do it every time... I know the capability is there to achieve it, I just haven't looked into it as yet. Perhaps I'll do that during the week.

## Technology

A thought I've been wrapping my head around the past few days is the notion of SLA management and delivery of infrastructure resources. It's a suject I have a huge amount of interest in and something that I want to build out into a template or practice if possible. One thing that always was a bit of a stumbling block for me however was that most of the literature I came across would discuss using an internal billing system to encourage product owners to reduce costs. If a company didn't have the notion of productising their individual business units, how would you be able to recreate a similar capability? One thought I came across today is the notion of **Cost of Delivering Service**. Instead of directly billing an internal business unit as most models seems to do, this approach could instead be used as a component of valuing the financial impact of a project or department that it supports. We see this at an aggregate level in most financial reports internally within businesses as part of the IT cost structure. What I would like to do is be able to break that down to a cost per-VM or other resource. Based on that, any future project can then be assessed too on the net impact on this number. Both from assessing the impact of current infrastructure and support costs, as well as the impact of new projects that affect the infrastructure delivery. It also provides a number through which costs can be compared for on-premises vs cloud environments.

## Personal

With the lockdown having prevented most of my usual weekend activities, I've been starting to get into hiking over the weekends. Normally I would go on these with a friend however for reasons that didn't happen this week. So instead I ended up going for a hike for a few hours on my own. It was fantastic. For someone like myself who has a constant need to be around other people, it was a refreshing experience to be alone somewhere without other people around and be _ok with that_. It wasn't the hike that I had planned for the day, and I didn't get out for quite as long as I had hoped for as a result due to not having looked at the trail in depth beforehand, but the experience I had was unreal. I'm reminded of all the times I wanted to go hiking when I was younger but wasn't able to, being able to rediscover that experience has been hugely fulfilling. The only gripe I have at present is that my damn FitBit keeps losing connection to my phone while I'm out, so my hikes are often split into multiple smaller lots instead of a single contiguous map. I've overcome this by using other apps to track the hikes, but it does cause issues with exercise tracking, which is the other important facet to me in using the FitBit. It's enough to prompt me to want to look at a new tracker, one that has GPS natively built into the device. Hopefully that would bypass the connection issue entirely, as it seems like a Bluetooth disconnection is what causes the problem of breaking the exercise measuring. Life being as it is right now, there are always other priorities, but I'm definitely giving it some thought and every hike seems to push me ever closer towards buying something.
