---
layout: post
title:  "Problems"
date:   2020-05-27 15:00:00 +10000
categories: 100daystooffload thoughts
---
## Fix Problems

While watching a couple of YouTube videos today, one phrase that popped up during one video I was watching from [James Jani](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCT0dmfFCLWuVKPWZ6wcdKyg/about) was "If you want to make a million dollars, find a million dollar problem and solve it. If you want to make a billion dollars, find a billion dollar problem". I don't know if he's the first to say it and I'm not too concerned whether he is. The phrase struck a chord with me and got me thinking about how such a simple statement really does form the core of so many multi-billion dollar companies and the individuals who created them. The corollary to this is that a billion dollar problem is an aggregate number. Something that is enough of a problem that one billion people will pay one dollar to solve it is just as much an oppotunity as a problem that one million people will pay one thousand dollars to solve. If you can find the scale and efficiency to create a solution to these problems, you've found your idea.

There lies the difficulty though. If the problem is worth five dollars to get rid of, your solution needs to cost less than that for you to have even a chance of making an opportunity from it. If the cost to solve the problem is $4.99, with enough scale there's a possibility you could eventually make money. If the cost to solve the problem is $5.00, you'll never be able to profit on it. Just a one cent difference can be the tipping point from profit to loss. Scale also only becomes relevant if the cost of providing the solution somehow is reduced as a result. The lower the marginal cost of producing more of the solution, the easier it is to scale. That's how software companies have done so well. The marginal cost of creating a new copy of software approaches zero. With large scale manufacturing or the like, the marginal cost is reduced through efficiencies at scale that reduce the marginal time requirements to create a product, or through increased purchasing volume that reduce the marginal cost of transactions, otherwise known as volume discounts. Marginal cost reductions in time come from either doing more in a single timeframe (making two dozen cookies instead of one, thereby reducing the effective labour rate per cookie), or from reducing the complexity of the task such that lower cost labour can fulfil an equivalent role. Reducing the cost of transaction comes from increasing the size of single transactions. If it takes the same amount of time for a salesman to complete a $500 deal as a $5000 deal, his relative cost in the transaction reduces, even though the absolute cost remains the same. These marginal efficiencies are the hidden levers that make a billion dollar solution a profitable one.
