---
layout: post
title:  "The Modern Art of Being Too Busy"
date:   2020-05-28 16:00:00 +1000
categories: 100daystooffload
---

I've seen a few articles and videos recently on the notion of productivity and on being too busy. Compound this with a friend of mine that was telling me the other day about how busy she was working, trying to start her own side-business, wanting to start a podcast and all these other _hustles_ that she was wanting to work on. It's mind boggling how much effort people put into not having time for anything else. Not to say that I don't have a busy life - between aerials, SCUBA diving, hiking, rock climbing and work I have a plenty busy life. But I don't chase that notion of being busy for the sake of saying Im busy or being able to 10X my life, I do these things because I enjoy them. I feel so many people put together this notion of having to be constantly productive to justify the time they spend on things in the search of "freedom". Whether that's financial freedom, freedom to choose what you do or whatever else. I know for a time I was like this too. I tied my value as a person to the level of effort I put into my work. The more hours the more I was moving myself forward. I would sit in the office for 50 hours a week doing whatever I could to show everyone I was productive. Ultimately though, all I was doing was filling time. True productivity comes from doing what needs to be done in the shortest period of time.

The way I live and work now is still busy. I still have times where I need to put in hours of work beyond a normal day. But those are days when the shortest period of time I can get something completed is more than an eight hour work day. The rest of the time, what needs to be done can be completed in far less time or can be put off for another day. No-one died because I sent an email at 9am then next day instead of at 10pm at night. I'd argue that I'm completing more now than I was before because I'm focusing on doing only what I need to do, not on trying to fill my day to justify my existence. A large part of this comes from working at a company where the focus is on the results created, not on the hours worked. When you're measured on the time spent on something, you maximise that time to convey dedication. When you're measured on the results of your work, you spend as much time as needed to complete the work to the best you can. It's given me pause to step back and look at the scurring of the people around me who spend so much time filling their time that they don't stop to appreciate how they could spend that time doing something else and being so much happier for it. Maybe I'm putting myself on a podium here, but I do feel that I've finally learned that lesson on valuing my time as something to enjoy now, not something toburn through in the hope I can enjoy it in the future. That future might not come to fruition. Or perhaps even worse, it comes along and you've spent so much time chasing the opportunity to have time you don't know how to enjoy it.
