---
layout: post
title:  "P.S - You aren't necessary anymore"
date:   2020-07-01 11:35:00 +1000
categories: 
---
No weekly wrapup this week as I got to spend a great weekend away with no internet connectivity to write anything. I did however find a perfect candidate to vent about upon returning to my emails on Monday. The post-script (PS). If you're still using this, don't.

Allow me to explain. The context around the original use of "PS", "PPS" and the rest comes from the days of handwritten letters. The letter was written and signed at the end once the author had written down all they had to say at the time. If there later was more information to convey, this could be done by inclusion of "PS" after the signature, instead of rewriting the whole note. As we moved towards more mechanical word processing, such as typewriters, the use of PS was still relevant as to adjust the text would require a complete re-write of the document.

Fast-forward to 2020. You have a digital terminal on which you're writing. You have a cursor that can move along a page in-between words and characters. If you write something and later on wish to add or alter information, __you can__. Adding a PS is a hangover from another time and medium, and to use it in modern day communication is to fail to understand the purpose of the intent.

Places to __not__ use PS (That I've seen in the past week):
* Emails
* Blog Posts
* Forum posts (although and edits should be noted as such)
* Messages on platforms such as Twitter or Facebook where you are not signing off with your name
